---
layout: post
title: "Resume"
author: "Vinoth Kumar"
tags: resume
---

# About Me
I'm a lead software engineer and architect.
I am equally at ease with hands-on software development, software architecture and engineering management.
My focus areas are around building highly scalable and resilient cloud native applications.

### Lead Engineer and Architect
<hr>
As a lead engineer and architect, I have strong coding and system design skills.

- I’m top [4% of the users in Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/571718/vinoth-kumar-c-m) and [top 1% of users in Software Development Stackexchange](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/users/17887/vinoth-kumar-c-m).
- Lead and encourage the team to write clean code, SOLID principles
- Leading the stakeholder buy-in for architectures ( through governance forums etc., )
- Experienced in refactoring, containerizing and moving applications to the cloud
- Lead design and implementation of cloud-native applications
- Area of expertise include Microservices, Domain Driven Design and Functional Programming

### Technology stack
<hr>
Although I'm largely technology agnostic, these are some of the tools I use at work on a daily basis
- **Programming Languages:** Java 11, JavaScript, Kotlin
- **Frameworks/Tools**: Kubernetes, Docker, Istio, Spring Boot,Node.js, Reactor
- **Methods/Paradigms:** Microservices, Domain Driven Design, Event Driven Programming, Functional Programming

### Engineering Manager
<hr>
I have also played the role of engineering manager. As an engineering manager: 
<br>
- Experienced in forming high performance teams from scratch (hiring, on-boarding, retaining talent)
- Leading and inspiring engineers in cross functional teams.
- Leading and delivering digital transformation projects.
- Shaping engineering culture and mindset.

**My core skill therefore, lies in the intersection of technology, business and management - being able to seamlessly adapt and assume roles necessary to solve the problem at hand.**

# Recent Projects

### COE Digital Transformation (Sep 2019 – Present)
I'm working on an umbrella of projects at the same time leading digital transformation initiatives - setting standards,
creating reference architectures etc., Some of the highlights in this area :
- Led the design of architecture for authentication/authorization for cloud-native applications
- Creating road maps for migrating monoliths into Microservices
- Lead various engineering initiatives around CI/CD, TDD, Pair Programming, BDD, Contract Tests etc.,
- Coaching and mentoring engineers

### PSD2 Open Banking

